Bharat Biotech in pact with GSK, PATH to manufacture world's only malaria vaccine

Source and Date: Swati Bharadwaj | TNN |  Jan 27, 2021, 22:19  IST

HYDERABAD: Vaccine maker Bharat Biotech on Wednesday said it has entered into a product transfer agreement with pharma giant GSK and global non-profit PATH for the world’s only malaria vaccine RTS, S/AS01E1 that was developed by GSK. The pact includes the transfer of manufacturing of the RTS, S antigen part of the vaccine as well as the grant of a licence on all rights pertaining to RTS, S/AS01 malaria vaccine to Bharat Biotech. With this, by 2029, Bharat Biotech will be the sole supplier of the vaccine. However, GSK will retain production of the vaccine’s adjuvant AS01E, which it will supply to Bharat Biotech. Bharat Biotech was selected by GSK and PATH as a partner based on its experience in development, production and supply of global health vaccines through a comprehensive competitive process in consultation with the World Health Organization (WHO). The malaria vaccine is currently being piloted under the Malaria Vaccine Implementation Programme (MVIP) in Ghana, Kenya, and Malawi. The first dose of the vaccine has been given to over 5 lakh children since the pilots were initiated in 2019 by the health ministries of these three countries. The tie-up is part of the GSK commitment to donate up to 10 million doses of the vaccine for use in the pilot and to supply up to 15 million doses annually until 2028 if the product is recommended for wider use by WHO. Pointing out to the over 200 million cases of dreaded malaria worldwide, Bharat Biotech chairman and managing director Krishna M Ella said the partnership will help provide global access to the malaria vaccine. He said the company, which has expertise in malaria research and WHO prequalified vaccines supplied to over 70 countries, is all geared up for large-scale manufacturing, and to provide a continuous long-term supply of the life-saving vaccine. Thomas Breuer, GSK Vaccines Chief Medical Officer and Vaccines Global Health lead said: “With a child still dying of malaria every two minutes, helping secure the long-term future of the only vaccine available by working with an established leader like Bharat Biotech is vital for the continued fight against this devastating disease.” The Hyderabad-based vaccine maker currently manufactures 17 licenced vaccines that are distributed in India and global markets. Of these, three – Rotavac, Typbar TCV and BioPolio – are WHO prequalified. 