BJP accuses Congress netas of inciting violence on R-Day

Source and Date: TNN | Updated: Jan 28, 2021, 08:21  IST

NEW DELHI: BJP on Wednesday accused Congress leaders of inciting the farmers who indulged in violence and lawlessness on Republic Day, escalating the offensive against the opposition party. “Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has not just been continuously supporting the protesters but has incited them as well. He did the same during protests against CAA… he incites the people and agitations happen the next day,” senior leader Prakash Javadekar said at a press conference at the party headquarters here. Javadekar said even the Congress government in Punjab incited the farmers, which could be testified by the tweets of the Youth Congress and other organisations of the party. “A Congress leader wrote in a tweet yesterday — 'A peaceful protest is being shown as a violent one’. What happened at Nangloi and other parts of Delhi was non-violent?” he asked. Javadekar said over 300 police personnel were injured, several of them were in ICU. “Was this non-violent?” he asked. The BJP leader said Congress wanted to create a situation of unrest in the country. “This is what Congress politics has been reduced to. They are worried as to what will happen to family-based politics and it is that worry that is leading them to whip up emotions over different issues and stoke violence,” he added. He said no condemnation of the riots that unfolded in Delhi on R-Day will be enough. “Everyone who triggered it should be punished. India will not forget the insult of the tricolour. Congress has continuously fuelled these farmers' protests,” he said. The minister, who was speaking after Congress attacked the government for its failure to stop the lawlessness, praised Delhi Police for exercising restraint in the face of serious threat to themselves. “They were attacked by swords and even stones were thrown, but they did not retaliate. They brought the situation under control with restraint,” he added. 