Deep Sidhu, man blamed for Capital chaos, goes missing

Source and Date: IP Singh | TNN | Updated: Jan 28, 2021, 09:17  IST

JALANDHAR: Punjabi actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu, who is copping most of the blame for the violence that marred the tractor rally in Delhi on R-Day, hid from the glare of cops, farmer comrades and cameras on Wednesday even as two new videos of the mayhem surfaced, one of which shows a vehicle give chase as he runs and jumps onto a motorbike to escape. On social media, the barrage of posts accusing him of sullying the farmer stir far outnumbered those questioning the attacks on him. The latter asked on what grounds Sidhu could be held responsible for the tractor parade turning into a riot at Red Fort. Red Fort raider Deep Sidhu has been quoting Jarnail Singh BhindranwaleFor Sidhu, the past six months have been a rollercoaster journey from popularity to hitting rock bottom. Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) functionaries have been projecting him as the villain of the piece, even branding him an RSS agent. On December 10, Sidhu had advocated moving away from the “yes or no” approach adopted by the farmers’ unions, saying that the path of political diplomacy should not be blocked. Outnumbered, but not outdone: Injured cops recall Republic Day horrorSidhu had caught the public eye beyond his identity as an actor just when the farmers’ agitation was gaining momentum a few months earlier. In the first week of October, he started a morcha (protest) at the Shambhu barrier in Patiala — the border between Punjab and Haryana. He then spoke of federalism, quickly acquiring a large number of supporters on social media. Many of these supporters have stood by Sidhu even after Tuesday’s events, saying he is being made a scapegoat by the media and farmers’ unions who are themselves flawed. Delhi: A pre-planned conspiracy by Centre, say these protestersWhile there was always some friction between Sidhu and the unions, it seemed to have increased in the last two months. In a Facbook live on December 10, the actor-activist accused “communist unions” of working on an agenda to further Left politics through the stir. However, after being trolled, apparently for advocating a middle path and allegedly trying to weaken the stir, he apologised the next day. BJP accuses Congress netas of inciting violence on R-Day“Political diplomacy has been abandoned... Some communist organisations want a clash so that they can build their politics, which is not desirable at all. Such clashes would be much more dangerous,” he had said, while stating that sons of the mothers who had come to the protest riding on emotions should return home safe. “We shall keep a watch if somebody wants to construct a political structure. Leadership needs to take decisions with farsightedness, not just to avert political pressure,” he said. These comments were, perhaps, made against the backdrop of public pressure to repeal the laws. “Discipline must be maintained. We don’t want politics and we need to... avoid any damage,” he said. "Our victory should not be defined by ‘repeal or bullets’… Remain in discipline, don’t do anything wrong under provocation.” 