Farmers put off February 1 Parliament march

Source and Date: Vishwa Mohan & Neel Kamal | TNN |  Jan 28, 2021, 08:28  IST

NEW DELHI/BATHINDA: A day after violence during the tractor parade rocked the capital, farm unions agitating for repeal of the new central agri laws put off their ‘Sansad March’ (march towards Parliament) scheduled for Budget day on February 1 and decided to instead hold a day-long fast on “martyrs day” on January 30, the death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. The unions alleged Tuesday’s violence happened as a result of the “Centre conspiring with Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (led by Satnam Singh Pannu) and certain individuals, including BJP-RSS linked actor Deep Sidhu, to defame the movement”. Balbir Singh Rajewal of Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) said, “We will expose the conspiracy angle as the Delhi Police forced protesters to head towards Red Fort.” He alleged the cops simply left the police post from Red Fort and provided hours to the hooligans to make their way under a conspiracy. “Deep Sidhu also made his presence felt at Red Fort,” said Rajewal. The union leaders, however, did not present any evidence of the alleged police complicity. Before addressing the media, the unions discussed the violent incidents and leaders felt that the Centre has been "shaken" by the agitation. It was also said that when farm organizations announced the January 26 programme, elements like Deep Sidhu and KMSC attempted to torpedo the agitation. It was claimed that KMSC announced a march on Ring Road. “Since we as members of the SKM gave the call for the parade, we are taking the moral responsibility of the incidents that had happened on Republic Day,” said Yogendra Yadav of Jai Kisan Andolan. He said, “We have not cancelled the ‘Sansad March’. We have just postponed it. It'll be held later. Our movement will continue till our core demands (repeal of farm laws and legal guarantee to MSP) are met.” The Morcha leaders called for the social boycott of Deep Sidhu and termed the incident at Red Fort as an act of sacrilege. Asked about FIRs registered against them by Delhi Police, BKU (Tikait) leader Rakesh Tikait said this was normal during a movement like it. “It won’t deter us from strengthening our protests,” he said. The Morcha leaders also claimed that only 10% of farmers in the movement turned rogue and deviated from the designated route, mostly at the behest of the KMSC and certain individuals, while 90% others stuck to their designated route and participated in the parade in a peaceful manner. 