Pledge to boost defence ties as Biden admin dials Delhi

Source and Date: TNN | Updated: Jan 28, 2021, 08:22  IST

NEW DELHI: The new Biden administration has started making its first contact with Indian counterparts. On Wednesday. National security adviser Ajit Doval spoke to his counterpart Jake Sullivan and defence minister Rajnath Singh with the US defence secretary Gen Lloyd Austin. Both conversations reaffirmed the commitment to expand an already growing defence and security cooperation. Defence minister Rajnath Singh said he and his US counterpart Lloyd J Austin, in a telephonic conversation on Wednesday evening, “exchanged views on bilateral, regional and global issues of mutual interest to strengthen our strategic partnership”. In the conversation between Doval and Sullivan, the two NSAs agreed to work closely to further advance India-US relations, which are built on shared values and common strategic and security interests. They highlighted the need to work collectively to address challenges in the post-Covid era and further expand the Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership, said an official MEA statement. Austin, the first African-American US defence secretary, has made similar introductory telephone calls to his counterparts in the UK, Japan, South Korea, Canada and Australia, among others, over the last few days. “Singh and Austin, in the 20-minute conversation, reaffirmed their commitment to work together to strengthen the multi-faceted India-US defence cooperation and strategic partnership,” said an official. The US readout said, the two reiterated the “commitment to the US-India Major Defence Partnership, observing that it is built upon shared values and a common interest in ensuring the Indo-Pacific region remains free and open”. The India-US relationship has deepened in the past few years, and the Chinese challenge, as well as the pandemic, have created a greater imperative for the two sides to work together. The Biden administration has taken over at a time when India is going full steam ahead with its induction plan for the advanced S-400 Triumf surface-to-air missile systems from Russia despite the threat of US sanctions. The S-400 deliveries to India will begin in September-October this year, under the $5.43 billion (Rs 40,000 crore) contract inked with Russia. All five mobile squadrons of the S-400 air defence systems will be progressively delivered by 2023. 