Two British MPs draw flak for failing to condemn R-Day violence

Source and Date: NAOMI CANTON | Updated: Jan 28, 2021, 02:58  IST

LONDON: : Two British Labour Sikh MPs are facing criticism for failing to condemn the violence after having openly supported the farmers’ protests in Delhi which on Republic Day ended in anarchy with the Sikh religious flag, the Nishan Sahib, being raised at Red Fort, one farmer protester dead and hundreds of police officers injured. On Tuesday, in the midst of the rioting, Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi an MP who has roots in Raipur, Jalandhar, tweeted: “Sad to see scenes of clashes between some protesters and police in Delhi #FarmersProtest. Notable though the huge #TractorParade today and ongoing months long struggle (largest protest currently in the world) have been peaceful and inspired so many struggling for an existence.” Shadow international development secretary Preet Gill, whose family hails from Jamsher in Jalandhar, tweeted: “It’s heart-breaking to see the scenes from Delhi. All citizens have the right to peacefully protest. The Internet has been shut down after police fired at protestors. #IStandWithFarmers.” UK-based Manoj Ladwa, Narendra Modi’s former communications director and founder and chair, India Inc. Group, tweeted an image of a Sikh protester threatening a police officer with a sword, saying: “This is hardly an image of Gandhian peaceful protest @PreetKGillMP @TanDhesi! Will you condemn those who resorted to premeditated violence, attacked police officers, misused sacred religious symbols - all on the day when India was celebrating its democracy? #IStandWithFarmersToo.” An investment professional and dealmaker covering India, Alpesh B. Patel, tweeted the same image, comparing it to the January 6 storming of the US Capitol, saying: “Just as the armed militants who raided the US Congress, promoted by Trump to do so, should not disgrace all Republicans, so this armed militant should not disgrace all farmers, promoted by some UK politicians… No thanks militants. Liberalism + Democracy.” Patel also quote-tweeted Gill’s tweet, saying: “You don't get away with playing victim. Not Trump supporters raiding Congress and not your supporters wanting their own theocratic separate ISIS-like State.” 