'75% private sector jobs to be reserved for locals'

Source and Date: TNN | Updated: Jan 28, 2021, 08:07  IST

DUMKA: Chief minister Hemant Soren on Tuesday said the state government is working on a new domicile policy and will reserve 75% jobs in the private sector for locals with an aim to ensure social and economic justice to the people of Jharkhand. Addressing the gathering after hoisting the Tricolour in sub-capital Dumka on the 72nd Republic Day, Hemant said 2021 will be the year of employment generation and recruitments for Jharkhand. “Our government has resolved to dedicate this year to employment generation. Our aim is to provide employment to the maximum possible number of people,” he said. Hemant said that Jharkhand Combined Civil Services Examination rules were formulated to ensure that employment drives conducted through the Jharkhand Public Service Commission (JPSC) is regularised. “The new rules, constituted after decades, will enable different agencies to conduct recruitment tests through the year.” Apart from government jobs, Soren said his government also aims to extend financial support to encourage entrepreneurship among the youth. “For that very purpose, the Chief Minister's Employment Generation Scheme has been introduced by our government. Through it, loans up to Rs 25 lakh will be provided with 40% subsidy,” the CM said. Highlighting the state’s pro-farmers approach, Hemant said his government fulfilled its commitment by waiving agricultural loans up to Rs 50,000 and Rs 100 crore was earmarked in the current fiscal to compensate farmers in case of crop damages. The government will launch a universal pension scheme to provide Rs 1,000 a month to all the elderly people of the state, Soren said. He said that a 'dhoti-sari' scheme will also be launched under which a dhoti or a lungi and a sari will be distributed to 57 lakh poor families of the state at a subsidised rate of Rs 10 apiece. In a bid to encourage sports, the state government, had come up with the resolution to appoint 50 sportspersons in government jobs every year, Hemant said. He said the government was also aiming at promoting the state as tourist destination and a new tourism policy was on the anvil to achieve the target. He said that construction of a 500-bed hospital is in progress on the premises of the medical college in Dumka, which will strengthen healthcare in Santhal Pargana. Chief Minister said that ensuring socioeconomic justice among the common people of the state was the priority of his government for which he said promoting education among through establishing arrangements for quality teaching was on the priority. "A sum of Rs 1,885 crore has been earmarked for establishing propert infrastructural facilities in schools been selected on the basis of its performance," chief minister said. Earlier Chief Minister inspected the parades and tableaux of different government departments depicting the ongoing schemes for the welfare of the common people. 