Bombay HC seeks fresh report on Varavara Rao after his chest pain concerns

Source and Date: Swati Deshpande | TNN |  Jan 27, 2021, 20:13  IST

MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Wednesday sought a fresh report from Nanavati hospital on Elgar Parishad accused P Varavara Rao, 81, on Thursday by 11 am, on his complaints that he had severe chest pain and doctor’s recommendation of regular monitoring by 2D-echo tests. The HC is hearing his plea for bail on medical grounds and his wife’s petition for his liberty on grounds of violation of his fundamental rights including right to life. National Investigation Agency (NIA) counsel, additional solicitor general Anil Singh on Wednesday opposed his bail plea but adopted the state ‘s submission through public prosecutor Deepak Thakare that Rao could be shifted to JJ hospital prison ward where he could be monitored. Singh said the last report by Nanavati hospital never mentioned ‘dementia’ as one of his ailments and when the judges pointed to its mention in an earlier report by the JJ hospital said the “latest medical report has to be believed’’, which had said Rao was fit to be discharged. The NIA counsel said the report had suggested normal cognitive functions and said more tests could be done to rule out dementia. Rao, alleged of Maoist links, faces stringent criminal charges under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). He is at Nanavati super-speciality hospital since last November. A bench of justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale was hearing the matter. Rao, 81, submitted an affidavit stating that on January 8 and 14 he faced “two episodes of severe chest pain”. “On January 19 I was taken for an ECG and 2D-Echo test at around 11 am. While I was with my nephew N V Rao on 19.1.2021, Dr H Limaye, consultant internal medicine, came to my room…he informed us…the conclusion would be that there is a leakage in the valve into his heart that causes chest pain. He informed us that of course that is common in old age, and though not immediately dangerous, but once it is observed, the patient has to undergo a regular 2D-Echo tests.’’ Rao, pointed to the prison manual and said the care he is recommended is “not available at Taloja prison.’’ But, he said his son-in-law, a neurosurgeon and granddaughter, a MBBS and a “host of family doctors’’ are available for him if sent home to Hyderabad. Rao said since Taloja doesn’t have personal medical attendants for inmates, two of his co-accused Vernon Gonsalves and Arun Ferreira had to be kept as his attendants last year and despite their requests, his catheter was not changed for three months. The HC said, “See the list of medicines you (authorities) are giving him every day. He is sustaining that. So, it means he is under continuous medical support. Just see how many tablets he takes in a day.” Singh replied that most of the pills were “for age-related’’ conditions. Senior counsel Anand Grover for Rao objected to him being sent to JJ hospital, saying it may lead to his relapse. If fit he can be sent back to jail, else his family can take care of him at home, said Grover. The HC will hear the matter again on Thursday. 